Welcome to the Complete Intro to React.
This is the eighth revision of
the Complete Intro to React.
We do our best here at Frontend Masters
to keep everything nice and fresh and
up to date.
So you definitely do not have to have
taken version seven, six, five, four,
three, two, or one.
Maybe one.
I'm just kidding, don't take one.
God, how long ago was that?
That was years and years and years ago.
So now you can start here on
version eight, that's totally fine.
If you wanna hop over to
React-v8.holt.courses,
that will take you to this website.
You can also always just put
in React.holt.courses, but
that will take you to the latest one.
So if you're watching this course
later and version nine has come out,
this will take you to version nine.
Whereas version eight will always
take you to this website here.
So let's dive into it a little bit.
Let me explain to you first of all how
this course website works a little bit.
So if you go here and I click on this,
you can see I clicked on under the welcome
section and the introduction lesson.
It'll say that up here on the top right.
So if you're watching this later and you
don't know what part of the site I'm on,
you can always look in the top right and
it will tell you where you are.
And then you can always click on
this Watch on Frontend Masters.
This will take you to the videos on
Frontend Masters so you can follow along.
This course website itself is open
source and free and online forever.
Very grateful to Frontend Masters for
letting me open source these materials.
Not everyone has the opportunity
to watch this videos,
but this is very shareable, right?
So feel free to share this with
your colleagues and teammates and
things like that.
So let's talk about the methodology of
this class, why I teach it this way.
Obviously, I've taught this eight
times now, actually nine times.
I had to redo it once cuz API problems.
But we don't wanna talk
about that right now.
I don't wanna talk about that right now.
Hopefully that doesn't happen today.
It won't, we'll be fine.
I started writing React I think in 2014.
I actually have a link to the tweet
that I tweeted once upon a time about
when Reddit launched their very
first React code, which I did.
It was before React was cool.
How people talked about how they
liked bands before you did,
I liked React before you did.
It's fine, it's fine, I'm cool.
That's probably the lamest
flex I've ever done.
And I probably had lamer flexes,
but that's a pretty lame flex or
dumb flex rather.
Yeah, so when I started teaching these
courses, I felt like it was like, draw
the owl, right, where there's a circle and
then the rest of the owl, right?
It felt very much like that and
I didn't like that.
So I wanted to go through and
actually explain to step by
step everything in React.
I'm a big proponent, as someone who's
worked in DevTools for a very long time,
of understanding the tool
that you're using.
Because when a tool introduces complexity,
you start to resent the tool unless you
understand what the tool is doing for
you, right?
If you understand the complexity
that your tool is solving for you,
then you love your tools as opposed
to hating your tools, right?
So we're gonna be writing literally
in a script tag React, right,
with no build tools or anything like that.
And then we'll just build
on tools after that.
We will not use Create React app,
which is an awesome tool for
someone to get started.
But it's a lot of complexity
to introduce all at once.
People are like I hate Create React app.
Until you understand what
Create React app does for you,
in which case you love Create React app.
So that's basically it.
We're going to build our own Create React
app basically throughout this.
And then we're gonna end up
building this pet adoption app
throughout the entire course here.
So hopefully, this course is for you.
It's for
anyone that wants to know React better.
This course assumes a base
level amount of JavaScript.
This is not a JavaScript course.
There's JavaScript courses on
Frontend Masters, a few of which I teach.
In fact, yeah, you can go to the bootcamp.
And this is a good way to get started
as well if that's really where you need
to start here.
You can take this after that.
This class shares much of
the structures of v5, v6, and v7.
I had a major revision around there, and
I was really happy with
that flow of the course.
So this is really an update to v7.
There's some new things in
here like React Query and
React Toolkit and
some other things like that.
But for the most part, that the general
flow is very similar to v7.
Some setup notes here.
This course has been tested
both on macOS and Windows, and
I'm positive it works as well on Linux.
I'm gonna recommend the eight gigs of RAM.
That will make everything
run real smoothly.
If you have four gigs,
this will still work.
It's just you're probably
gonna go a little bit slower.
Make sure you have Node JS installed.
We will be using Node almost immediately.
I did test this on 14, but I'm gonna say,
I prefer that you're on 16 for
this course.
And if you're watching the videos later,
probably 18.
But this has been tested on 14,
everything in here should work on 14.
I would guess this would probably work
on 12, but don't do that, please.
I think 12 is actually as of right
now deprecated, so just don't do it.
You do not have to use VS Code,
though I will be showing you some
VS Code tips and tricks along the way.
I used to work on VS Code, so
it's just kind of ingrained in me now.
People will always asked
me what my setup is here.
So I have Mono Lisa for my font, or
Mono Lisa, which is not a free code, but
I do have ligatures enabled.
You'll see sometimes my glyphs
are combined with each other.
We can have a double equals.
It's like a really long equals,
things like that.
That's called a ligature.
I left some notes in here and
how to enable that.
If you want that on a free font,
I'm gonna suggest Cascadia Code,
which is the free font
that Microsoft puts out.
I use Dark+,
just the normal VS Code theme.
I haven't found one that I like better.
Though sometimes I do use
Sarah Drasner's Night Owl.
No, I actually I use just
the built in macOS terminal now,
cuz it seems to be faster.
So, and then I use vscode-icons.
So if you see all the cool icons I have
in my VS Code, it's from vscode-icons.
I think that's really all that's
interesting about my setup.
If you have questions about it,
let me know.
I just try and
preempt that because it's always the first
dozen questions I get asked about.
What's this, what's that,
where did you get this?
So, I try and
answer that before people have it.
Where to file issues,
this site itself is open source.
So I think if you just click here,
this will take you to the issues.
So all the lessons are just in here.
So if you see spelling errors or
even worse like actual errors
in stuff I'm teaching,
please just open an issue,
open a poll request.
It's open source software,
so feel free to share that.
And the reason why I asked you to put
the stuff on GitHub as opposed to
just messaging me is, if you had this
issue, somebody else has this issue.
So if it's on GitHub,
that means Google can crawl it, and
then people can Google it, and
they can find the answer to your question
that someone else is gonna have later.
Okay, so who am I?
My name is Brian.
Hi, hi Brian.
I'm a product manager at Stripe.
I've been an engineer for a decade.
So I'm not just a business school
grad that decided to teach courses.
This is stuff I've done
a long time in my career.
And then eventually I decided I wanted
to build the tools that help developers.
So which was I became a product manager so
I can kind of work on those things.
I still write a lot of code
in the course of my day job.
At the moment, I manage all the dev
developer tools for Stripe.
So I own the VS Code extension, the CLI,
all the Stripe server side STK.
So if you're writing stripe and
Node JS together,
that's the STKs that I get to work on.
Before that, I worked on VS Code itself.
I worked on Azure,
I was the JavaScript lead for Azure.
And then I spent a decade as
an engineer like Netflix,
Reddit, LinkedIn, some other startups.
So I've written a lot of React.
Yeah, so this tweet here,
see if it'll come up.
So this is me, Brian.
And you can see I wrote this from
Salt Lake in July 20th, 2014.
This is when I launched
my very first React code.
It actually made it to the React
blog because back then they didn't
have very many people that
had it in production, right?
It was basically us and Khan Academy and
Facebook, maybe a couple of others.
So it was a deal.
And I kinda just fell in love
with it after that in the sense
of it allowed me to write code
that was very explicit, right?
I could see the flow of data going through
my app, and that was really appealing.
Because I could then hand this app over to
someone else, and they'd be like, okay,
I see where everything is going.
And I was coming from a world of
Angular JS, version one of Angular JS,
where everything was very black magic,
right?
And it just it came from
all sorts of directions.
It was very hard to follow where your
data and mutations came from, right?
So I kind of just stuck with it.
I think now there's a lot of
great frameworks out there.
I still teach React, I still use React,
and I still love it.
But there's great things out there.
SolidJS is awesome,
new Angular is awesome, Vue, Svelte.
I think they all definitely
have their merits as well.
So if you wanna get into an argue
about frameworks with me,
I'm not gonna argue with you.
I was like, that is also very cool.
So, Yeah, so,
I mean I've been using this for
nearly a decade, which is basically
eternity in web development terms, right?
So I write a lot of stuff for
Frontend Masters.
I think this is like, I can't even
remember how many times I've been here.
It's probably close to my 30th time
here teaching at Frontend Masters.
I don't even know.
I can't count that high.
I live in Seattle.
My favorite things to do, I like to
travel, I mean, when I can now, right?
I have a kid now, he's 10 months old,
and he's very cute.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Thank you.
In my free time,
sometimes I get on a Peloton.
I play Dota very poorly.
And I drink either scotches and
IPAs and coffee.
That's me, I mean.
Feel free to catch up
with me on social media.
I left my links on here.
I'm the worst at responding to DMs.
So if you send me a DM, there's a 90%
chance I won't respond because there's
just too many and I get overwhelmed,
then I close the window.
That's just true.
And just one vanity request here.
If you could start the repo,
that would make my day.
So you just click this little guy up here.
Okay, and then I think there
are two repos for this website.
So there's a website you're currently on,
which is this one I showed you up here
which says, Complete Intro to React v8.
There is a second repo,
which is the example project.
So if you click on this one which is
citr-v8-project, this is all the various
different click stops that we're gonna
go through with all the milestones.
So you can see here we're gonna
do No Frills React and JS tools,
and stuff like that.
If you fall behind or if you're confused
about something that's breaking that you
don't expect to break,
you can just hop back in here and
you can look at the last
milestone that we reached.
And in each one of these is like
a complete version of the class up to that
point, right?
So you can use a diff tool to
see what's different, right?
So for example,
I use this one called Kaleidoscope, and
you can pull up the project here.
I have it here.
So if I wanna see the difference
between v5 or step 5 here,
and I can drive 6 here, this will
actually show me all the different here.
So I can see this file is new,
I can click on this one, and
then it'll show me all the differences
between the various different files.
I'm using one kaleidoscope,
I think it's like 80 bucks.
So it's unfortunately not cheap.
But I think Source Tree and
some other programs will do this for you.
I think you can convince
git difftool to do this for
you if you really want to try hard enough.
So that's why I do this in
this kind of fashion so
you can compare what's changing over time.
And so all the ones that have numbers
here at the front, these are all for
the Complete Intro to React.
All these ones without numbers here down
at the bottom, these are gonna be for
Intermediate React,
which is the second course in the series.
Does that make sense for
everybody how that's kind of arranged?
We're gonna be starting
from totally from scratch.
So I'll invite you to
just go clone this repo.
But if you follow along with the class,
you shouldn't necessarily have to use
this, but it's there if you want it.
And just to show you,
At the bottom here of every single lesson,
or not every single, some of the lessons,
you'll see this checkered flag.
That's an indication to you that we've
reached one of the milestones, right?
And it's always at the bottom.
It'll always tell you the name of it, and
it'll always link you directly to
where that folder is in the project.
I have this website up here.
You can see here I have two computers.
Literally this computer,
I just have this up.
So this is basically all
of my course notes, right?
So I am always just going through here and
making sure I'm hitting
all of my talking points.
You can basically teach yourself
this workshop by just reading
my website cuz it's literally
what I'm doing here.
What is new from v7 in this course?
This course goes from v7 used Parcel,
this will use Vite,
which is a different build system.
The React community has kinda
moved in another direction.
I try and teach things that I believe in,
and I also try and
teach things that I think
are gonna be most useful to you.
That's kind of the the Venn
diagram of stuff in the course.
Personally, I still use Parcel.
I love Parcel.
It's the best developer experience
tool for build systems.
V7 uses it, v6, v5.
I've used Parcel for a long time.
But the React community has moved on.
They've moved to Vite.
Vite is still awesome.
Vite is from the same people that do Vue.
Great tool, basically is good.
So, that changed.
I've just updated some things
to work a little bit better.
I'm trying to remember exactly.
We talked about React Query.
That's probably the biggest
addition to v8 that was done in v7,
which is just a new tool for doing
fetching and requests and stuff like that.
Basically, everybody uses it now,
and it's a great tool.
So I use it.
So I think I believe in it.
We'll talk more about uncontrolled
forms than we did in v7.
I'm trying to think if I cut anything out.
I'm sure I did.
And then just in general, this is the
version 18 of React as opposed to version
seven, this course taught version 17.
That was the biggest impetus for
me to coming back,
was just to cover all
the new React 18 stuff.
The more advanced features of React 18
we actually covered in Intermediate.
So a lot of that doesn't permeate
too much into the complete intro.
But there are a couple things that
will come directly from version 18.